<div class="container">
  <p class="lead text-center"><strong>PTSA Minutes</strong></p>
  <br>
  <div class="accordion-group">
      <div class="accordion-heading">
          <a class="accordion-toggle" data-toggle="collapse" data-parent="#accordion4" href="#collapseFour">
              January 9, 2014
          </a>
      </div>
      <div id="collapseFour" class="accordion-body collapse">
          <div class="accordion-inner">
              <center>
                  <h4>
                      Central Middle School
                      <br>
                      PTSA Meeting
                      <br>
                      January 9, 2014
                      <br><br>
                  </h4>
              </center>
              <p>
                  In attendance: Ann-Marie LaCasse, Laurie Rostock, Nora Morris, Kate Jones ,Lisa Maranto, Mrs. Beall, Vicki Loucks
                  ​<br>
                  Meeting called to order at 6:37 PM.  Meeting minutes of December 12, 2013 approved.
                  <br><br>
                  <b>Treasurer’s Report / Ann-Marie LaCasse</b>
                  <br><br>
                  Budget is in good standing.
                  <br>
                  Changes in budget: Denise Lundberg purchased (7) plants for office on behalf of the PTSA as holiday gifts.
                  <br><br>
                  <b>VP/Volunteer Coordinator / Kate Jones</b>
                  <br><br>
                  Blast information is now on Facebook.
                  <br>
                  (4) Volunteers are needed to assist in office during staff outing for luncheon this month.
                  <br>
                  Vision & Hearing is coming up.
                  <br>
                  For Valentine’s Dance 2/13 Kate will confirm with Mr. Horowitz if volunteers are needed.
                  <br>
                  Volunteers are needed for the 8th grade Dance, Awards ceremony, and Civil Reenactment.  Request to be submitted for Blast. A 8th grade Dance chairperson is needed.
                  <br><br>
                  <b>Membership / Vicki Louckes</b>
                  <br><br>
                  PTSA membership is currently at 308 members.
                  <br><br>
                  <b>Green School/ Lisa Maranto</b>
                  <br><br>
                  Lisa is working with Mr. Ellis and the Green Club. Volunteers are needed for Rain Barrels installation at the school.
                  <br>
                  Tri-M is assisting with the garden in the front of the building.
                  <br><br>
                  <b>President/ Ann Marie LaCasse</b>
                  <br><br>
                  There are a few Spirit Wear T-shirts available. A recommendation was made to have a table at the 6th grade orientation to showcase.
                  <br>
                  (5) students are currently signed up for the Chess Club. The club will meet after school.
                  <br>
                  Ledos Fundraiser Night is scheduled for 1/14.  Coupons will go home with students and a Connect Ed message will go out providing details of event.
                  <br>
                  If a student presents a Ledos receipt to the teacher, they are entitled to a Homework pass.
                  <br>
                  A Spring fundraiser for Technology to be determined. As an incentive/prize, it was recommended that the winner get an IPad mini.
                  <br><br>
                  <b>Principal's Report/ Mrs. Beall</b>
                  <br><br>
                  Mrs. Beall stated that she will be heading out for 4-6 weeks starting 2/10/14 for knee surgery. Mrs. Sharon Morell will be the Acting Principal during her absence.  Mrs. Morell was the principal at Severna Park Middle School.
                  <br>
                  The Green school has started their Soles 4 Souls collection.
                  <br>
                  There will be a STEM Team Showcase on 2/13/14 from 5-7 PM. A letter will go home with students and a Connect-Ed message to be done.
                  <br>
                  Many items are currently in the Lost & Found. Announcements have been made to students to check for their lost items.  A note will go out in the Blast. Any remaining items not claimed will be donated to Central Special School.
                  <br>
                  Mid-term Exams will be 1/14-24. These exams are county-made. Half day teacher work days are 1/21-24.
                  <br>
                  At Interims, students are performing at approx 80%.
                  <br>
                  Mrs. Beall distributed and reviewed a handout of Student Behavior Summary by Event/Concern and Second Marking Period Data of Interims standings.
                  <br><br>
                  Meeting adjourned: 7:30 PM
                  <br>
                  Next meeting: February 13, 2013 at 9:00 am
              </p>
          </div>
      </div>
  </div>

  <div class="accordion-group">
    <div class="accordion-heading">
      <a class="accordion-toggle" data-toggle="collapse" data-parent="#accordion3" href="#collapseThree">
        October 10, 2013
      </a>
    </div>
    <div id="collapseThree" class="accordion-body collapse">
      <div class="accordion-inner">
        <center>
          <h4>
            Central Middle School
            <br>
            PTSA Meeting
            <br>     
            October 10, 2013
            <br><br>
          </h4>
        </center>
          <p>
            In attendance: Ann-Marie LaCasse, Laurie Rostock, Nora Morris, Denise Lundberg, Pamela Murray, Mrs. Roser,
            Mr. Ravanbakhsh, Mitchelle Stephenson
            <br>​
            Meeting called to order at 9:10am
            <br>
            Meeting minutes of September 10, 2013 presented, reviewed and approved.
            <br><br>
            <b>Treasurer’s Report / Laurie Rostock</b>
            <br><br>
            Budget is in good standing.  Changes in budget: Membership income calculated at $4.75. To be confirmed at National PTA. There are 263 members. BTSD +$278
            <br><br>
            <b>Membership / Vicki Louckes & Amy Richardson</b>
            Vicki & Amy were not in attendance- update sent in via Notes to Board)
            <br><br>
            Total Members                      263 (includes the 8 Amy has reported this evening)
            <br>
            Teacher Members                  22 (included in total above)
            <br>
            Total Membership Fees          $3,655.00
            <br>
            Total Donations                       $1,590.00
            <br>
            Total Revenue                         $5,235.00
            <br>
            This compares to the total 2012-13 membership of 296 with $1,942.00 in donations.  To compare similar timeframes, we had 289 members at the end of October 2013 and $1,852 in donations.
            <br>
            Central Middle School Facebook Page is up and running.  If you have not “liked” it yet please do.  This should be come a great tool for communication and volunteer recruiting.  We can grow the page participation by sending invites to our blast email list.  Current administrators are Ann-Marie, Kate and Vicki.  Denise has the ability to post but cannot manage the administrators at this time.
            <br>
            For Credit Card acceptance for donations and membership via website, Costs from several sources have been compared, the PTSA’s current banking provider, PayPal and two groups that serve the PTA community exclusively.  Given that we have sporadic usage it is in our best interest to use a service with zero monthly and/or minimum fees.  Both PayPal and Paperless PTO meet the criteria at similar cost.  Given most people’s familiarity with PayPal and the service’s ability to process transactions using both PayPal and Visa/MasterCard, Vicki recommends PayPal as the appropriate solution.  If our transaction volume and frequency grows significantly we can consider a more traditional provider.
            <br><br>
            <b>Hospitality / Denise Lundberg</b>
            <br><br>
            The September teacher luncheon went well.
            <br>
            Denise will be submitting a receipt to Laurie for paper product purchases.
            <br>
            The November teacher conferences dinner will be catered at $500 for 130 staff members.
            <br>
            There will not be a November luncheon.
            <br>
            SR Pizza was used last year, Denise will look into Stan & Joes for this year.
            <br>
            Denise is requesting assistance with the teacher conference dinner, as she will be out of town.
            <br><br>
            <b>Green School / Mrs. Brownlee</b>
            <br><br>
            Mrs. Brownlee and Mr. Ellis are pushing for CMS’s application as a Green School.
            <br>
            Mr. Ells has started a Green Club and is looking into Rain Barrels for the school.
            <br>
            PTA is Green with the following implementations:
            <ul>
              <li>Electronic Newsletter</li>
              <li>Weekly emails</li>
              <li>Website/Facebook</li>
              <li>Offering online payments for PTA</li>
            </ul>
            Mrs. Brownlee and Mr. Ellis are working on the following:
            <ul>
              <li>Plants in every classroom</li>
              <li>Green Products-Tables at the STEM night.</li>
              <li>Stem Night- February 13th (backup date Feb 20th)</li>
              <li>Teracycle-Parent on our Green Committee</li>
              <li>Reach out to parent contact with Tri-M and rain garden.</li>
              <li>Contacting Mrs. Brown and requesting to come into her classroom during science when they make green products.</li>
              <li>Hosting a Shoe Drive in January. Nike has a recycling program that has turned old sneakers into a track.</li>
              <li>Hosting a Green Day</li>
            </ul>
            Laurie Rostock offered her assistance. She worked on making DES a Green school. She recommended having teacher testimonies and pictures showing how CMS is Green.
            <br>
            Laurie suggested contacting Lara Mulvaney and Beth Barratta as they may be able to assist with becoming a Green School.
            <br>
            Pamela Murray offered assistance indicating that she works for a company that sells Green Products and offers shoe boxes.
            <br>
            Mitchelle suggested having the rain barrels installed at the portables.
            <br><br>
            <b>President / Ann Marie LaCasse</b>
            <br><br>
            Ann Marie discussed whether we should have Facebook an open or closed site. Mitchelle indicated that a widget from Twitter can be linked for Twitter feeds. Mitchelle has offered to be an administrator and can control pictures uploaded to Facebook and block individuals.  Mr. R. indicated that we need to be aware that there are students that can not have their pictures taken, information is on emergency card.
            <br>
            Currently we are 15 “Likes” on Facebook.
            <br>
            Mitchelle recommends having Teacher of the month, Parent volunteer of the month, Harvest for the Hungry on the site. A link for mypaymentplus.com would be helpful in allowing parents to follow link and pay for PTSA membership and Science fees.
            <br>
            Ann Marie to discuss with Vicki that a required field needs to be added to the Membership page with the Paypal option to submit an e-mail address for Blast updates. A button also needs to be added Donations to the Technology Fund.
            <br><br>
            <b>Fundraising & Spirit Wear / Pamela Murray</b>
            <br><br>
            Pamela indicated the income of +$1209 for spirit wear is incorrect. There is still an outstanding invoice to be paid and all orders and invoices need to be reviewed for accuracy.
            <br>
            There are T-shirts and Hoodies on hand in the back office to sell.
            <br>
            Pamela is awaiting the ETA from vendor of the school order placed 9/20/13.
            <br>
            Pamela is concerned with the size of the hoodies…they are running small.
            <br>
            Pamela recommended doing a parent survey to gage all interest in fundraising ideas for future years.
            <br><br>
            <b>VP/Volunteer Coordinator / Kate Jones</b>
            <br><br>
            Kate was not in attendance- update sent in via Notes to Board)
            <br>
            The school dance was a success.  Kim Barker, Dance Chair, is going to write down all pertinent info for future Dance Chair persons.  Kim placed the $277.79 profit made from the dance in an envelope in the school PTSA box for the treasurer to deposit in the account.
            <br>
            We are currently asking for volunteers to sign-up for the Book Fair (Nov. 5-11, 2013) and the CAT South tour on Nov. 13 11:00am - 1:30pm.  Invitations have gone out to those who expressed interest and the link to sign up for both will be sent out in the eblast in a week or two.
            <br>
            Denise will be looking for volunteers for the Hospitality luncheon on Nov. 14th.
            <br><br>
            Website Update:
            <br>
            The website is up and running.  It is frequently being updated for changes, especially the volunteer page and the calendar.  Current updates made/to be made include the membership form to join the PTA, links to sign up to volunteer, the link to watch the mandatory Sexual Harassment and Abuse video, notification of our Facebook page, the calendar of events and the latest meeting minutes.  As soon as the board decides on how it wants to take online donations, the donation page will be updated and linked to the PTSA account.
            <br><br>
            <b>Principal's Report / Mr. R & Mrs. Roser</b>
            <br><br>
            Mr. R indicated that we had a great school opening all is going well in the school.
            <br>
            Teachers are currently working on SLO’s (Student Learning Outcome).
            <br>
            Discipline is down. This month is at 6 referrals compared to last year at 26.
            <br>
            With the new construction, interaction between grades has helped in behavior.
            <br>
            Teachers are adjusting to the Common core curriculum. Teachers meet weekly on Fridays to collaborate. They have resources and standards to follow.
            <br>
            Denise asked Mr. R if parent volunteers are needed during study hall (during advisory Mondays and Tuesdays) to help students stay focused and help complete their homework. Parent sign-ups can be through Sign up genius for 9-9:45 on Monday’s for Math & Social Studies and Tuesday for Science & L/A’s. Six parents per day / 2 per grade with advisory teachers would be needed. Kate to meet and discuss with Mr. R for further details.
            <br>
            Mrs. Roser will send out Facebook and Website information to team leaders. Team leaders will send out the information to the parents via their weekly update.
            <br>
            Mrs. Roser will send out a blast to teachers reminding them to join the PTSA.
            <br>
            Parent Involvement Advisory Committee/ Mitchelle Stephenson
            <br>
            Mitchelle Stephenson has a 6th grader and is on the Parent Involvement Advisory Committee (PIAC) that meets with the Superintendent of AACPS 1 x month.
            <br>
            Mitchelle is also the SR Cluster representative with CAC (Citizens Advisory Committee) which is a 2 yr term. This position represents the secondary schools.
            <br>
            Mitchelle is working on the Common Core presentation: The Core of Student Achievement”,
            <br>
            8:30 a.m. to 2 p.m., Saturday, November 16, 2013, at Anne Arundel Community College in Arnold.
            <br>
            This is a FREE conference for parents with workshops on a variety of topics including:
            <br>
            <ul>
              <li>Parents Guide to Common Core</li>
              <li>Time Management and Organization</li>
              <li>Learn how to use Parent Connect XP</li>
              <li>Bringing Out the Best in Children</li>
            </ul>
            Keynote speaker: Rob Levit, Annapolis-area musician, author and artist. After the keynote, participants will be able to choose 3 one-hour breakout sessions from a menu of 12 different topics of interest to parents with students from pre-K through grade 12.
            <br>
            Current topics of discussion:
            <ul>
              <li>Getting better access of resources for parents from the Superintendent and Administrators.</li>
              <li>Having the Guidance office offer information to parents on colleges.</li>
              <li>Changing the MSA to PARK for every grade; CMS is a pilot school for the PARK test in April with 30-60 students in a 20 day window.</li>
              <li>Removing class rankings in high schools.</li>
              <li>How are the teachers doing w/ Common Core Curriculum?</li>
              <li>Asking county to form a task force to discuss school start times.</li>
            </ul>
            Meeting adjourned: 10:48am
            <br>
            Next meeting: November 14, 2013 at 9:00 am
          </p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </div>

  <div class="accordion-group">
    <div class="accordion-heading">
      <a class="accordion-toggle" data-toggle="collapse" data-parent="#accordion2" href="#collapseTwo">
        September 10, 2013
      </a>
    </div>
    <div id="collapseTwo" class="accordion-body collapse">
      <div class="accordion-inner">
            <center>
              <h4>
                Central Middle School PTSA
                <br>
                General Membership Meeting / Club Expo
                <br>
                September 10, 2013
              </h4>
              <p>
                <b>Meeting called to order at 6:00 pm.</b>
              </p>
            </center>
        <p>
          <b>Mrs. Beall / Principal</b>
          <br><br>
          Welcomed and thanked parents for coming to the 2013-2014 PTSA General Membership Meeting / Club Expo. Mrs. Beall introduced Ann-Marie LaCasse to begin the PTSA meeting.
          <br><br>
          <b>Ann-Marie LaClasse / President</b>
          <br><br>
          Welcomed parents and introduced the PTSA Board. Ann-Marie indicated that at the PTSA sign-in table are PTSA membership and volunteer sign-up sheets. All encouraged to join. The membership list is used for the weekly Blast. Ann-Marie discussed the importance of parent involvement in middle school.
          <br><br>
          Minutes of PTSA meeting of August 20, 2013 were presented and approved.
          <br><br>
          <b>Treasurer’s Report</b>
          <br><br>
          Laurie Rostock reviewed the budget and indicated that she was available for any questions following the meeting. Laurie indicated that all funds go right back to the school to assist with school programs (Civil War re-enactment), purchases and teacher support (Teacher Appreciation Week).
          <br><br>
          The budget was presented and approved.
          <br><br>
          <b>Principal’s Report / Mrs.Beall</b>
          <br><br>
          Mrs. Beall indicated that this year the school will not be participating in a school wide Fundraiser. Mrs. Beall is looking for parent contributions in order to purchase technology for the classrooms.
          <br><br>
          <b>Mr. Ravanhakhsh/ Asst. Principal</b>
          <br><br>
          Thanked all for coming and PTSA for holding Club Expo. Reviewed club represented that evening; Sea Perch, 24 Club & Robotics, Art Club, Yearbook.
          Sign-ups for the clubs are to be done with the respective teacher. Students should listen for updated announcements each day.
          Mr. R. indicated that review of club packets can be found on the school website. Mr. R. informed parents that Activity buses leave the school 4:00 - 4:15 pm.
          <br><br>
          <b>Kate Jones/ Volunteer Coordinator</b>
          <br><br>
          Kate discussed filling out the Volunteer form and turning it in as soon as possible. Kate informed parents of CMS’s new website centralmiddlepta.org in order to view school current information.
          <br><br>
          Meeting adjourned 6:30pm
        </p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </div>

  <div class="accordion-group">
    <div class="accordion-heading">
      <a class="accordion-toggle" data-toggle="collapse" data-parent="#accordion1" href="#collapseOne">
        August 20, 2013
      </a>
    </div>
    <div id="collapseOne" class="accordion-body collapse">
      <div class="accordion-inner">
        <center>
          <h4>
            Central Middle School PTSA
            <br>
            General Membership Meeting / Club Expo
            <br>
            August 20, 2013
          </h4>
        </center>
        <p>
          <b>In attendance:</b> Ann-Marie LaCasse, Laurie Rostock, Nora Morris, Denise Lundberg, Amy Richardson, Mrs. Beall, Mrs. Roser
          <br><br>
          Meeting called to order at 10:34am
          <br><br>
          Meeting minutes of June 6, 2013 presented, reviewed and approved.
          <br><br>
          <b>Treasurer's Report / Laurie Rostock</b>
          <br><br>
          Budget is in good standing. Changes in budget: T&S Budget 1,000 Actual $2,321 with $1,640 donated.
          Insurance had an increase from 179 to 188. New checks were ordered $119.00 which should last several years.
          $159.00 was added to mini fundraisers bringing new budget amount to $1,359.
          Wreaths across America will be removed and replaced with Spirit wear.
          Proposed 2013-2014 Budget will show an increase of the National PTA dues going up from $3.75 to $4.75 from last year.
          Mrs. Beall will be distributing the budget to all teachers.
          <br><br>
          <b>Membership / Amy Richardson</b>
          <br><br>
          Amy indicated that 1200 membership packets are copied and ready for distribution for back to school packets. Both Amy & Vicki will be working on the membership list.
          Amy will contact the Green Turtle to see if they will provide coupons that can be given out to teachers when they join the PTSA.
          Discussion of a teacher PTSA membership discount from $15 to $5 as an incentive for teachers to join was reviewed. PTSA will need to further discuss with membership co-chair / Vicki Loukes.
          Sign-up Genius and Website will be ready by BTSN for membership.
          <br><br>
          <b>Hospitality / Denise Lundberg</b>
          <br><br>
          The dates for the teacher lunches have been determined for the school year. Dates have been submitted to Mrs. Sollenberg for review and approval.
          Denise has a meeting scheduled with Michelle Phibbons to review all details of T& S lunches and Appreciation week.
          <br><br>
          <b>President / Ann Marie LaCasse</b>
          <br><br>
          Club Expo will be before the Back to School Night/General Membership PTSA on September 10th at 5:30pm. 8th grade students will be asked to help cover the Club Expo tables.
          General Introductions followed by review and approval of the Budget before heading up to classrooms.
          PTSA will have a table at entrance for BTSN will all additional forms. No refreshments to be served this year.
          Following the meeting all PTSA board will stuff back to school packets.
          Box top chair will continue with committee. Escripts are to be reviewed and updated with procedures.
          The Back to School dance date to be Thursday 9/26 after school.
          <br><br>
          <b>Nora Morris / Secretary</b>
          <br><br>
          Nora has been working on Spirit wear and has selected Impressive in Crofton to be the vendor for the new program. A request has been made to have samples for BTSN made to sell and promote program.
          The fees to start this min-fundraiser will be the Logo and Embroidery art set-up fees. There will be a small mark up from cost price to selling price with all monies to go to the Technology fund.
          <br><br>
          <b>Kate Jones / VP / Volunteer Coordinator</b>
          <br><br>
          (Kate not in attendance - update sent in via Notes to Board)
          <br><br>
          1,100 copies of the Volunteer Form were given to the school to go home with the New School Year packet. They are on blue paper. The plan re: volunteers this year is to gather as many names as possible up front (as we have in the past) but also sent out blasts on Sign Up Genius before events to encourage more community participation. There is an account with Sign Up Genius and CMS can create event sign-ups that can be blasted out to the masses (hopefully in the weekly blasts when needed.) Kate will be going into the school frequently to pick up the volunteer forms that are returned to the school then ask those who responded if they wish to chair the committees.
          Website Update: The web domain is being purchased and the website should be ready to launch by Back-to-School night. Information has been gathered from the school and some calendar info from the school and county websites to begin with. Photos have been taken for the site and Kate met with Mr. R to find out about clubs and contacts. Mr. R indicated that he wasn't sure what kind of participation we would get from teachers at the club expo and Kate suggested that if teachers can't be present, perhaps they could get a couple 8th graders that have been in the club for a couple years to "man" the table, hand out info, answer questions, and tell folks who to contact and the deadline to join the club"
          <br><br>
          <b>Principal's Report / Mrs. Beall</b>
          <br><br>
          SMART Boards & Technology is currently being installed and will be done by 1st day of school.
          School is fully staffed. Mrs. Arida has been promoted to Teacher Specialist in AVID. They currently have a candidate in my mind for replacement.
          Schedules are all done.
          There are approximately 1060 students this year with 332 of them being 6th graders.
          The new Assistant Prinicpal is Courtney Roser ( croser@aacps.org).
          Mrs. Beall recommends putting the monthly calendar in the Blast for parents.
          <br><br>
          Mrs. Beall is currently working on the Technology Fundraiser. A letter will go out with all students asking for parent donations stating goal of how many laptops to purchase in the school year. Kate Jones is assisting with the fund raiser.
          There will be a poster/bubble with a picture of the different items that can be purchased as different levels are being achieved.
          The fundraiser letter will also be attached in Blast.
          <br><br>
          This school year CMS will be offering parents the option to use PayPal for their Science & Art fees. The school system has an agreement with Paypal and we are a pilot school officering this service.
          <br><br>
          Meeting adjourned: 11:48am
          <br><br>
          Next meeting: October 10, 2013 at 9:00am
        </p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </div>

</div>
